Jesus compared our days with the days of Noah.
Jesus would know because he was in heaven and watched the days of Noah go from bad to worse.
How bad were the days of Noah?
Let's look at Genesis chapter 6 and verse 5 for a description.
Consequently, Jehovah saw that man's wickedness was great on the earth
and that every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only bad all the time.
The wickedness on the earth was made worse by wicked angels that abandoned their role in heaven
and materialized human bodies to marry women on earth.
These unholy marriages produced sons that were giants called Nephilim.
Now parents, you imagine what it must have been like for Noah and his wife
to raise a family in that ungodly world.
But you don't really need to imagine it, do you?
Just one look around us and we can all see that we live in a world that fits the same description
if not worse than the days of Noah.
Just as Noah's faith was tested, your faith will likely be tested too
as you raise a family in this ungodly world.
Please do not allow the pressures at work from relatives or others.
Make you think the material things are more important than your family's relationship with Jehovah.
You can remain faithful by imitating Noah, not his neighbors.
In the following dramatization, note how a parent's faith is tested.
Another busy day, my daughter's going to preach, I'm off to work and it's family worship night.
Bye dad. Have a good day sweetie.
Alright let's end up. I got an announcement for everybody.
What? More required over time?
Let's get back to work.
It's extra money, but how can I do it and take care of Regina?
Isn't it a family worship night?
Maybe a little later sweetie.
I wanted to, but I was spent again.
Our brother knew it was family worship night,
but extra work, the pressures of life were dragging him down.
His faith was being tested.
Would he imitate Noah or his neighbors?
Noah's neighbors lacked faith.
They did not do what was needed to save their families.
Instead Jesus said they were so distracted by their daily lives,
eating and drinking, getting married,
that they took no note until the flood came and took them all away.
In contrast Noah took note.
Noah acted in faith to save his household.
Look at the beautiful description of Noah's faith in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 7.
By faith Noah, after receiving divine warning of things not yet seen,
showed godly fear and constructed an ark for the saving of his household.
And through this faith he condemned the world
and he became an heir of the righteousness that results from faith.
Noah's actions saved his household.
We can be sure it was not always easy for Noah to explain to his sons
why they were building an ark and no one else was,
or why building it was more important than anything else they had to do.
His three boys would have seen the Nephilim.
Noah and his wife could hardly have shielded their boys from all the stories
that circulated about those giants.
Imagine some of the discussions that Noah and his wife had with their boys.
The materialized wicked angels and their Nephilim sons were men of fame
and admired by everyone for their superhuman capabilities.
Even today people are fascinated with stories and movies of humans with superpowers.
But those wicked angels and their sons the Nephilim were nothing to be admired or imitated.
Noah taught his sons not to admire or copy them.
They had to help their boys see that Jehovah felt hurt by the violence and rebellion in the world.
The boys needed to learn to love Jehovah and imitate him.
Parents, take the time to teach your children to hate what Jehovah hates
and to love what Jehovah loves.
Jehovah hates liars, cheaters, bullies, selfishness and greed.
On the other hand, Jehovah loves honesty, peace, love, sharing and self-control.
Noah, like any good father, wanted to make sure his family had a comfortable place to live and good food to eat.
Think of the houses that Noah and his sons could have built from themselves.
They certainly had the construction experience.
But that was not Noah's focus.
Noah's life had more meaning and purpose than building houses, eating and drinking.
Noah taught by example and kept his focus on saving his household from the coming flood.
He likely had at times when he felt tired or overwhelmed with the sheer size and scope of building an ark.
However, Noah did not allow his day-to-day life to crowd out his service to Jehovah.
He made sure that no matter what else was happening in his life,
that the work of building the ark kept moving forward.
Our brother we saw in the video, he was tired and overwhelmed by his work and job.
All of us can identify with how he feels.
Life in this system is hard.
We appreciate the hard work and effort that you parents are making to keep a good spiritual routine for your family.
We know how tempting it can be to say, well, we'll study later, or we'll pick it up again next week.
See the danger.
Putting off our spiritual routine this week can easily lead to three weeks and then six weeks and then not at all.
Jehovah took care of Noah and his family's material needs.
So you can be confident that Jehovah will take care of you and your family.
He will bless you for your obedience.
In the following dramatization, note how our brother imitates Noah's faith.
The world is such a mess.
It's everything Jesus said it would be.
She's so good, spiritually minded like her mother was.
Can I expect she'll stay that way on her own?
If it is just like Noah's day, I need to show faith like he did.
Let's do our family worship.
I need to show faith in Jehovah and work hard to save my family.
Did you notice how our brother acted in faith?
Our brother imagined what could happen to his daughter if she lost her spirituality and adopted the lifestyle of the world.
What he saw really scared him.
He immediately turned off the TV and joined his daughter for family worship.
Noah knew that building the ark would save his family from the coming flood.
But only if they were in the ark with him.
He did not want to see his sons adopt the lifestyle of his neighbors.
Noah did everything he could to make sure that he taught his sons to love Jehovah by his words and his actions.
Parents, by imitating Noah, you can save both yourself and your family.
Brother Seth Hyatt, a helper with the service committee, will now consider the next talk of this symposium, imitate the faithful, not the faithless, Moses, not Pharaoh.